We can now move on to locking in our our values are saying I'm going to do is I'm going to add a second
layer and I'm going to change it to multiply.
Well this allows us to do is it allows us to paint on top of our image but we can still see our image
through it.
Someone going to go ahead and start blogging in my callers are value sorry
I use my fill tool make sure it's on the paint bucket.
Fill that in
.
Now we want to do here is we just want to give a general value to each part of our background so for
our island.
We want to give it a dark value for Castle.
We're going to have probably a white value and we want to give a value to our sky and we also need to
give a value to our floating islands.
And this is just to help guide us throughout the rest of the creation of this background.
So we're not guessing on how light or dark things should be.
We know that the island is dark floating islands are dark and the castles are white and the sky is a
light gray
the way you make things stand out in an image and give it a focal point is by adding contrast.
So our castle is going to be our focal point.
Sarcasm is going to be very white and our sky is going to have a dark gradient behind it
.
Now just to keep my paint from going into the water I'm only selecting this top area that's outside
of the water.
So that way when I paint it can't see over to my water side
.
So we're just going to leave that castle white
and we'll give these floating islands the same value as our island in the water
.
Let's give a darker value to our grass on our floating islands
Now we're ready to add a value to our sky the way we're going to do this is we're going to add a third
layer and make sure that it's behind a layer one and we're going to use our fill tool but we're going
to use the gradient tool and we're going to select a light gray.
We want to make sure it's lighter than this great so that the sand out so user eyedropper tool which
is this tool over here on the left hand side and click on that color that value and it all selected
for you down here in your color picker.
We want it a little bit lighter than that so let's come up.
And now we can use our fill tool and create a gradient across there.
Whoops I forgot to put it on multiplies so let's put our layer on multiply.
Now let's try it.
Good.
Now I want our gradient going in a different direction so I'm going to redo that.
Got graded are gray is a little too light so I'm going to bring it down just a bit
.
I think that's about good.
So our castle is no longer white because our grading is going right through.
So what we're going to do is we're going to erase the gradient wherever the castle is.
We also don't really want a gradient going through our water so let's select our water area and delete
the gradients out of it.
Just make sure that you have your gradient layer selected when you do that
.
So right now we are just erasing the gradient.
We're not painting it white.
We're just erasing
.
Now one last thing I want to do to us things I want to do actually is first I want to add more of a
canyon look under the water.
So I'm going to come back to our water layer.
I'm going to select this color and I'm just going to kind of add a little bit of a rocky look over here
kind of finish off our canyon
.
Now I want our water to have a little bit of a glow so we're going to select this gray the water gray
and then I'm going to come up a bow a third higher and then I'm going to enlarge my brush.
It's come up to our brushes and let's select one with a softer edge and let's bring the size up to save
500 pixels.
Let's go a little bit bigger.
Let's go with 800 pixels.
That's good.
So now what we want to do is we want to paint in a glow
.
I think we want to add some mountains on our horizon.
So when I add a new layer above our sky layer and I want to select everything outside of the water
and let's choose a gray that is a little bit darker than this gray.
that was my paint brush I can
paint in some mountains
and
let's erase
All right.
This is looking good.
We can go ahead and move on